people to buy into the fact that they're part of a college team.
And, you know, I hope we don't lose that because it's one of the real assets that we have.
I mean, you know, Jim Benjamin at accounting, Jim has historically done a wonderful job of getting the accounting profession to support his department.
But at the time that we were in our last capital campaign, we wanted to go to Arthur Anderson for a major gift that resulted in the naming of the building.
Jim was fully supportive of the fact that it was a broader scope than this support for the accounting department.
And, you know, it couldn't have happened without his support.
And, like I say, I mean, that just happens, and I don't think anybody can take credit for it.
You just try to create an environment where it's conducive to that.
And I think the best way to do that is a very open kind of atmosphere.
And in terms of faculty evaluations, have you all operated under a merit system?
Yeah, always, and we require annual evaluations.
Generally, we have been held up, and this was in place before I got here, but we have been held up as an example, I think, in most discussions about annual evaluations.
Held up.
Yeah, as an example of a positive way to do it, where we,
for years and years have required annual evaluations with feedback to the individual, in many cases with peer input.
I think most of our departments have gone to that and some have done it for a number of years.
What are the key factors in terms of teaching research and service and et cetera?
Our model is pretty broad, and the key factor to answer it in the simplest term is what have you contributed?
If you're going to max the system, then you would have undoubtedly contributed in enhancing scholarship in your discipline and the visibility and the reputation of the college in the process.
But I think we've also done a good job by saying what have you contributed in the teaching area as well.
Now, someone who contributes in both those areas should do better than someone who only contributes in one.
But someone who makes a major contribution in teaching should do better
better than someone who hadn't made a major contribution to the college.
And so basically we're looking and asking the very fundamental question is, what have you done to help this college?
Can you give some examples of the outstanding scholars, the outstanding teachers, some names that would be near the top of the deck?
Sure.
I mean, there's a Lynn Berry, for example, in marketing that's an example, or a My Kid, or any number that I can name, that are examples of people who come pretty close to maxing the system in both dimensions.
And then you throw service in, and they fulfill that one, too.
There are people like Carlton Stolle, who are not scholars in the traditional sense and probably are not enhancing
our visibility from a scholarship standpoint but who keep themselves current in the classroom and who consistently do an outstanding job of educating students and you know hopefully any system will
be constructed to recognize the contributions that people like that make.
Who are some of the people you think, some of the faculty or staff members, that the typical undergraduate goes to most often for advice and counsel?
Yeah, there, you know, there are a number of them, and there are some in each department, but there are a few that really stand out, and I'll make a point about that, too.
that one thing we've discovered the last few years, last several years, is that there's some outstanding talent and contribution to be made from people not on the tenure track.
We have hired full-time lecturers.
We have done, I think, a really good job of making them a part of what we're all about.
We treat them as faculty members in every sense of the word.
They carry an extraordinary teaching load and we don't expect scholarship effort from them, but they have just been outstanding contributors to our college.
And for example, two of the people that are in that category that if you were to stop a student in the hall and say, hey, do you know these people and what do you think?
You know, invariably they'd say, oh, they're great.
And if I've got a problem, I'd go see them.
One's Ben Welch, who is a lecturer in management.
He's now directing our Center for Executive Development.
Another is Linda Perry in accounting.
Both have won university awards for teaching as lecturers, nominated by this college.
You know, there's a George Fowler in the Information Systems Department and, you know, could go through just any number of people.
There's no way that we reward them adequately for what they do.
It's obviously not money that motivates them.
They just have a genuine concern for the students.
What are some of the legendary gateway courses in business that all majors have to take?
Well, accounting...
Accounting is one that some people either find it really easy or for some it's like a foreign language.
And certainly the introductory finance course, I think.
These are sophomore courses or freshmen?
Well, the accounting sophomore and the finance is a junior level.
We don't offer any business courses to freshmen.
And we like that.
We like for them to get a good liberal arts and science base.
And we're happy not to see them very much until they're juniors, really.
They'll take four business courses as sophomores and then they sort of show up and they're here full time when they're juniors.
But, you know, those are courses and then if you want to be an accounting or finance major, intermediate accounting is sort of like comparative anatomy for pre-med students.
I learned in Missouri, where they have the great journalism program, first one ever in the world, and you can't go to the J school until you have 60 hours plus, and you must have a 3.0, period.
And included in that 60 hours, so much of this, this, this, and this.
And that sure did work well.
And then they could, if they didn't get their number that they desired, they could make exceptions and let in two or three with a two nine or a two eight.
But they were able to put that number at whatever they thought was the number they could handle.
and the 3-0 would normally get a little less than the number that they could handle, and then they'd add a few on.
That is an outstanding program.
I mean, I've heard about that program for years there.
Let's see.
In sending forth proposals, describe the process
of something that you wanted to do.
What happened after it left the college?
Where did the key decision get made?
Yeah, I guess this building is one that comes to mind.
It seems like to me from a strategic standpoint, if you've got a major proposal, that the decision's going to be made in the provost and the president's office.
And that the job of the dean is to help shape that decision in every way possible, or to make it an easy for them to see the appropriate solution.
And so what we always try to carefully document
proposals and to show why it's a good investment and why it's a good decision.
Sometimes we obviously do better than others at that and sometimes we feel like that what seems to us is pretty evident is perhaps less true for others.
But essentially, if the president and the provost don't support something, then it's a very difficult proposition.
And so we feel that's the first selling job that we have to do.
How did this building come about?
Did you all start the proposal?
We did, and it really started with making a presentation to the building committee on campus.
About how long did it take from that presentation to moving in?
A lifetime.
It was years.
I mean, you know, obviously years, but it was like two years before...
the approval came in and then it was three years, so about five years.
What's the process of getting a building into the priority list?
At least at this time and at the time we did that was really just making the case to that committee and documenting it.
You know, and essentially our case was
One, that clearly we're a college that's grown dramatically and has grown equally dramatically in terms of its reputation and its visibility.
Two, that peer schools, comparable business schools all have their own facility.
And three, by the way, if you give us this building, it's going to solve a lot of other problems for you because with all this space we're vacating over there on the middle of campus, there are people lined up to take it.
And frankly, I think that was an attractive part of our proposal.
that they saw a lot of ways to use that space.
So it worked out well.
And internally, what was the planning process?
How did the guts of all this, how did it get put together?
We put together a committee that included some administration, but mostly faculty.
Had a faculty chair, Don Hellriegel at that time was not in administration and chaired the
committee representing from each department and from each major center and really laid out their priorities and what they felt like they needed and then totaled it all up and came back and cut where we had to cut and really then dealt with the architects on a very close basis.
We love this building.
I mean, it's a great building.
And, you know, I give the architects a lot of credit.
The one thing that we said to them that they were able to visualize, that all we could do was put it in words.
But I remember the first meeting we had with them, I told them that
that when I had visions of our building, it would be something that would blend academic and corporate, that we were a business school.
You know, and I think they captured that really well.
You know, from that notion that they did a really good job.
What were the toughest issues in terms of actually resolving about this building?
What were the toughest issues to deal with?
Well, you know, you never have
the space that you want and and so obviously this this kind of allocating out space and to try to make sure that everybody got their basic needs and and then this really some of the the trade-offs on on space and and
You know, is it better to have four more faculty offices and one less classroom?
Or, you know, how many conference rooms do you need and how many offices in this?
You know, there weren't any single issue that was really traumatic, but just a lot of little things.
And people entered it in a good spirit.
I mean, you know, not that we didn't have on that committee some interesting discussions.
But, you know, it turns out probably the one department that got the worst deal is my department, and that's marketing, because just the way that the design of the building and the space requirements worked out, marketing ended up on the second floor.
and all the other departments are on the third and fourth floor.
And it turns out that the second floor is the only place in the building where, one, the windows leak, and that, two, you don't have a pretty nice view because it overlooks the roof of the auditorium or the big classroom in this building.
So when I leave the dean's job and return to my department, I'm going to pay the price for having...
not looked out for them like I should have.
Other than that, in terms of the planning, whether by the committee or the architect, what has worked best and least well in this building?
Most of the functional parts of this building have been this first rate.
I would say what has worked best are the classrooms.
They were technologically state-of-the-art, and we've kept them that way.
We've made huge investments in them since then.
They lend themselves very well.
The design of the first floor is such that there can be literally thousands of students here going to class and you don't get the sense of being overwhelmed with people, whereas in the blocker building you felt like you were in a Grand Central Station kind of environment.
So that's worked very well.
The offices for the most part have worked well.
You know, I would say that like a lot of university buildings, probably the least desirable part is we don't have enough general purpose kinds of space.
If we have something special going on or, you know, need to have a reception or something, there's, I mean, but that's a reasonable kind of trade-off.
And this, if we were redoing it, they're like keeping the carpets clean.
I mean, I think I would insist upon having the stone floor that we have in part of the first floor throughout the whole first floor.
But, you know, those are really minor complaints.
I've dealt with a lot of academic buildings in my career, and there is no academic building that I've ever been involved with that comes close to this.
I mean, it's five years old, and it doesn't look five years old now.
What about access for faculty in terms of parking and so forth?
That's been fine.
We'd like to have covered parking, especially this time of year.
And, you know, we're just sitting out in the open out in the sun.
And mentioning parking, let me tell you a little anecdote about the parking.
We did something that I have not seen done in many academic settings is that when we were doing our parking lot and designing the parking lot, we told the parking people that we wanted no reserve places.
It's a controlled access lot and it's first come first serve.
If I get here last in the morning, I park at the back of the lot.
And, you know, I'll tell you, everybody, there's always a place to park out there, and that's not a problem.
But like, and we insisted that the custodial staff be giving places, and so they get here at 4 o'clock in the morning and their cars are on the front row.
And, you know,
THAT HAS REALLY WORKED WELL.
I THINK IT SENT A MESSAGE.
WE'VE GOT A RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR CUSTODIAL STAFF IN THIS BUILDING THAT'S THE BEST I'VE EVER SEEN.
WE HAVE A LUNCHEON FOR THEM TWICE A YEAR.
THEY REALLY WORK HARD TO KEEP THIS BUILDING IN FIRST RATE SHAPE.
Telling them, hey, if you get here at four in the morning, you park where you want to.
And this new building, I presume, has helped in fundraising and recruitment?
Oh, enormously.
Can you give some examples of?
Well, I think, one, when we bring faculty in, I mean, you know, there are so many examples of faculty that we've had, potential faculty that we've had here interviewing that have remarked.
how impressed they are with the building.
So there's no question they view this from a physical environment standpoint very positively.
I think in terms of the external, you know, it's my observation that our former students and corporate supporters are like everybody else,
They like to feel like that there's going to be a payoff for their support, that we all like to support winners.
And I think the building is this part of the package that we have, the ratings and, you know, all the textbooks our faculty have written.
In fact, our students do such a great job when they recruit them and so forth.
All that goes in this building all go into the package that, hey, this is a program
that's a high quality program and that they can make good use of our support.
I think it all goes together.
And as the plans were being formulated and they went up through the campus and then the system and so forth, what were the key questions that were asked beyond the college?
Well, particularly when it got to the regents level, the key question is, where do we put it?
And there were some real differences.
You mean location?
Location-wise.
Where do we site it?
And, you know, frankly, our biggest concern was just give us the building.
And, you know, we had obviously some opinions, and it ended up being at our first choice site.
But there was at least one regent, Mr. Weisenbaker, who really wanted the building to be over by engineering.
And, you know, Mr. Weisenbaker was a man who didn't mince his words and would tell you what he thought.
And in an open meeting where we were discussing this, I mean, he said, you know, said, hey, these are two premier colleges, and I want, you know, I want business.
He was a big supporter of engineering, as we know.
He said, I don't, I like business being over there with engineering where they do some things together, and I don't want them moving over there with all those ag people.
Where would he have put it?
He would have put it across university from where engineering is, that space there across the street from where the old Albertson store is.
That was his, Cherry Hill, I think it's called.
That was his first choice, or Apple Hill, or whatever it is.
And, you know, of course, if we had nightmares of all the pedestrian traffic, there would have to be crossing university and so forth.
But nobody ever mentioned going due east from engineering into where there is a parking lot.
Oh, yes.
Oh, okay.
Yes, but very quickly we were told that there would be no buildings built in that area, and there have not been.
In fact, engineering's building, chemical engineering building, and that was their first choice, and they were, you know, so that's going to be preserved as a non-building area for whatever reason.
But so, you know, where it would be located, and once it was decided, seriously talked about locating, and Mr. Weisenbaker, I mean, he was not unreasonable about this.
That was just his first choice.
But once we decided to have it over here, then a number of questions about how you get students back and forth, because suddenly we're talking about moving 6,000 students from one part of the campus to another.
And it was really, you know, I think we had a lot to do with the decision to go to 20 minutes between.
I think it would have happened anyway, but certainly we speeded that along to go 20 minutes between classes instead of 10.
And it's worked, incidentally.
There have been some inconveniences, but it's worked pretty well.
over here.
I don't hear, it's not a major issue with the students.
There's still a lot of parking, relatively speaking, over in this part of campus.
I think the medical school was the one that hated to see us.
I mean, they had a great deal here.
They were over here by themselves, and we were kind of the new neighbors moving in and messing up the neighborhood, bringing all these people and cars and everything.
And I'm assuming that business does not have any...
closest academic relationship neighbor on the campus.
There's no other college that y'all work with more than any other, is there?
Well, you know, Mr. Weisenbaker was right.
We probably do work with engineering more than any other.
We provide some courses for some of their programs.
But we've also had some continuing education relationships with Vet Med and some other colleges.
You know, we work some with a lot of the colleges, but you're right.
Unlike, say, the sciences and ag or vet med that work very, or math and engineering, we don't have any of those kind of relationships.
And I'm assuming that the typical business major comes here hoping to major in business, that there's not a high bunch of transfers from one college
I'm sure historically, I mean, you know, the old jokes about engineering is pre-business.
Yeah, that historically that was probably true, but it's so difficult to transfer into business now that for the most part, if they do want to get in business, they have to be admitted on the front end.
Let's see.
I presume that in terms of this building, legislators didn't get involved.
And did you and the executive committee that helped to plan this, did they work directly with the architect?
Well, theoretically we worked through the facilities planning operation and we were probably the most aggressive
group that they have ever dealt with in terms of insisting upon maintaining a direct contact with the architects.
I'm not sure that that was their first choice, but it was clear that we were bound and determined to do that, and I think it greatly contributed to the success of the finished product.
And the funding for the building was Puff Available Fund?
Right.
And in terms of original estimates and the actual cost, how did that come out?
We actually ended up with a completed building that was, as I recall, $1.3 million less than what it was supposed to cost.
And what about timing?
We had hoped to get in in time for the fall semester of 95, and we ended up getting in in December of 95, but it was always optimistic to think that we could be in before then.
So essentially it ended up, you know, at that time the building boom was known like it is now.
Share some experiences about everybody moving in, some plus and minus experiences.
Well, I frankly was surprised at how well it went.
And it was over the holidays and
We moved in first.
The dean's office moved first because we had students finishing up finals over in the other building.
And so consequently, the academic departments couldn't move.
So we were actually over here by ourselves.
And this building was designed as an energy-efficient building where all the lights operate by sensors.
And it was an enormous feeling of power
That you would enter this huge hallway on the first floor where there would be almost totally dark except for the emergency lights and that that and nobody else in the building because there were only like
you know, eight or nine of us over here.
And so we would walk the building and have these lights popping on as we would walk through and it was quite a feeling.
But the move went very well.
You know, nothing really unexpected, no real disasters.
It ended up costing us a lot more money to leave Blocker than we thought because at that time for our
chairs, we had mounted these big bronze plaques on the wall, and we had no idea they were gluing them to the wall.
And so when we left, much to liberal arts dismay, there was this whole long wall with this series of what appeared to be homemade cut windows.
interior wall that we had to pay to replace.
So there were a few humorous incidents like that, but for the most part things went well, the phones worked, and we were really very pleased with how well it worked.
And new furnishings for offices here.
That's a policy with new buildings for the most part is they will not let you take old furniture.
One, the people moving into your space where you're moving out needs something, but that's sort of part of the building.
Did you leave anything sentimentally that you would have brought for sentimental purposes?
There was almost nothing in the dean's suite in the blocker building that I would have developed any similar attachment.
This looks like a pleasant setting in terms of dimensions.
It's not huge, but it looks very adequate.
Oh, it's great.
You know, and our department head offices are very nice.
They have one room, but they have room for a small round conference table in them.
And, you know, very adequate.
We're full.
Of course, we've received now Regent's approval to add a wing onto this building.
And this building was designed for a wing.
Okay.
and sort of run right out toward the horticulture building.
It should, when it's finished, look exactly like the rest of the building.
And what will it house?
Well, it'll house, we'll add seven classrooms, including a 225-seat room, and it'll house the home for our Reliant Energy Trading Center, which is an exciting, where our students will actually
have a training for, and then they'll have a new networking lab for information systems, and then a number of offices, and we'll move all of our graduate operation there, all of our graduate advising office and the administrative offices, and it'll be what we refer to as the graduate wing.
Now when you arrived, was there a full array of graduate degrees available?
Yeah, all the degrees were in place.
They've certainly grown some, but no, we had a full range master's through doctoral.
So you've not had to go to the coordinating board for any new degree approval?
We've had to go to them a couple of times for new options, and we had an executive MBA that did require their approval, but we've really had no difficulty.
I think that they've been natural extensions of our programmatic offerings for a comprehensive flagship university.
All right, when you arrived and perhaps on to the present, what other institutions have you had personally as the model that you want us to strive to be like or more competitive with?
Well, you know, this is often not totally popular to say this.